Trait concepts (#135)
exercism/cairo: concepts/traits/about.md

# Traits

A trait specifies a set of methods that a type can implement. Traits are useful for defining methods that should be shared between types. When traits are used with generic types, the defined methods can be called on particular type but also possible to call them on other data type. In an abstract manner, with the use of _trait bounds_, we can specify that the generic type must share certain behavior.

> **Note:** Traits share similar feature to what is known as interfaces in other programming languages with some differences.

## Trait definition

Defining a trait helps identify the function signature that would make up the set of behaviors a type can implement in order to achieve a result. These methods form the behavior of a type. If we can call the same methods on different types, this implies that the involved types have same behavior.

```rust
#[derive(Drop)]

>     pub struct NewsArticle {

Reviewer: nit: format the code

        pub author: ByteArray,
        pub content: ByteArray,
    }

    impl NewsArticleSummary of Summary<NewsArticle> {
        fn summarize(self: @NewsArticle) -> ByteArray {
            format!("{} by {} ({})", self.headline, self.author, self.location)
        }
    }

    #[derive(Drop)]
    pub struct Tweet {
        pub username: ByteArray,
        pub content: ByteArray,
        pub reply: bool,
        pub retweet: bool,
    }

    impl TweetSummary of Summary<Tweet> {
        fn summarize(self: @Tweet) -> ByteArray {
            format!("{}: {}", self.username, self.content)
        }
    }
}

use aggregator::{Summary, NewsArticle, Tweet};

fn main() {
    let news = NewsArticle {
        headline: "Cairo has become the most popular language for developers",
        location: "Worldwide",
        author: "Cairo Digger",
        content: "Cairo is a new programming language for zero-knowledge proofs",
    };

    let tweet = Tweet {
        username: "EliBenSasson",
        content: "Crypto is full of short-term maximizing projects. \n @Starknet and @StarkWareLtd are about long-term vision maximization.",
        reply: false,
        retweet: false

>     }; // Tweet instantiation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    };
```
nit

    use super::ShapeGeometry;

    #[derive(Copy, Drop)]
    pub struct Circle {
        pub radius: u64
    }

    // Implementation CircleGeometry passes in <Circle>
    // to implement the imported trait for that type
    impl CircleGeometry of ShapeGeometry<Circle> {
        fn boundary(self: Circle) -> u64 {
            (2 * 314 * self.radius) / 100
        }
        fn area(self: Circle) -> u64 {
            (314 * self.radius * self.radius) / 100
        }
    }
}

use rectangle::Rectangle;
use circle::Circle;

fn main() {
    let rect = Rectangle { height: 5, width: 7 };
    println!("Rectangle area: {}", ShapeGeometry::area(rect)); //35
    println!("Rectangle boundary: {}", ShapeGeometry::boundary(rect)); //24

    let circ = Circle { radius: 5 };
    println!("Circle area: {}", ShapeGeometry::area(circ)); //78
    println!("Circle boundary: {}", ShapeGeometry::boundary(circ)); //31
}
```

The implementation visibility for both the `CircleGeometry` and `RectangleGeometry` does not need to be public since the `ShapeGeometry` trait is made public and should be easily found by the compiler.

## Impl Aliases

> Implementation, when imported, can be labeled as `impl` as an alternative name. This helps when instantiating a generic implementation for concrete types. Let's define a trivial `Two` implementation for all types that implement the `One` trait by simply adding twice the value of one and returning the summation. We can afterwards make available for use an implementation that works for u8 and u128 types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations can be aliased when imported, using the `impl` keyword. This helps when instantiating a generic implementation for concrete types. Let's define a trivial implementation of trait `Two` for all types that implement the `One` trait by simply adding twice the value of `One` and returning the summation. We can afterwards expose the `Two` implementation that works only for `u8` and `u128` types.
```
nit: wording

```rust
trait Two<T> {
    fn two() -> T;
}

mod one_based {
    pub impl TwoImpl<
        T, +Copy<T>, +Drop<T>, +Add<T>, impl One: core::num::traits::One<T>
    > of super::Two<T> {
        fn two() -> T {
            One::one() + One::one()
        }
    }
}

pub impl U8Two = one_based::TwoImpl<u8>;
pub impl U128Two = one_based::TwoImpl<u128>;
```

The generic implementation can be written in a private module and with the use of impl alias, we can instantiate the generic implementation of these two concrete types. The benefit of using a private and unexposed generic implementation is that it prevents code duplication across files. This as well keeps the public API simple and clean.

> ## Negative Implementation

Reviewer: Let's describe only the production-ready features of Cairo, not experimental ones. 
**Remove this section for now**, and we can add it back once Negative Impls are part of the core language. 

Created an issue to track this https://github.com/exercism/cairo/issues/143

        content: "Cairo is a new programming language for zero-knowledge proofs",
    };

    println!("New article available! {}", news.summarize()); // prints "New article available! (Read more...)"

    let tweet = Tweet {
        username: "Alice",
        content: "Cairo is fun and engaging.",
        reply: true,
        retweet: true,

>     }

Reviewer: The example does not compile due to the missing semicolon `;` here and the missing `Tweet` import. Add it and format the code.
